Source URL: https://www.hellenicshippingnews.com/dry-weekly-market-monitor-capesize-iron-ore-freight-market-trends/
Published: 07/06/2025 | Signal Group weekly dry market monitor Week 23, 2025
Retrieved: 2026-08-22

# Dry Weekly Market Monitor: Capesize Iron Ore Freight Market Trends

in Dry Bulk Market, International Shipping News 07/06/2025

This week's Market Monitor highlights Capesize freight market trends across the C3, C5, and C17 routes, as the Baltic Dry Index (BDI) gains momentum, driven primarily by the strong performance of the Capesize segment. A key indicator of current market sentiment appears to be the slight tightening in the ballaster count in both the North and South Atlantic, coupled with steady Chinese iron ore demand. Meanwhile, iron ore supply from Guinea is expected to rise, alongside continuing shipments from Australia and Brazil.

Iron Ore Demand Trends | Focus on China
Amid indications of a dip in iron ore flows to China, May concluded with a total volume of Capesize iron ore shipments from Australia, Brazil, and Guinea of approximately $82 million (mt), an increase of 14% compared to the previous month.

February appears to be the month with the lowest volume, at around $59 million (mt), which is 30% lower than the end of May. In contrast, the end of May exceeded the volumes recorded at the end of March, which were about $78.5 million (mt).

Meanwhile, iron ore traders are said to have recently revised up their bearish-case pricing scenarios to between $80 and $85 per ton versus $75 or lower at the start of the year. Market expectations underline that medium-term demand for iron ore should remain firm because China's young fleet of blast furnaces will require iron ore for at least another decade, said analysts at the flagship Singapore International Ferrous Week Conference at the end of May.

Upcoming Iron Ore Supply: The Simandou Project remains a long-term downside risk for prices
The Simandou iron ore project in Guinea, one of the world's largest undeveloped high-grade iron ore reserves, is expected to begin shipments in November 2025. When fully operational, the mine could supply up to 120 million metric tons annually. However, elevated operational risks persist due to political instability and unresolved disputes with the Guinean government.

Ton-Mile Demand from Africa to the Far East
Increasing ton-mile demand is evident on the Africa-Far East route, fueled by steady iron ore shipments from Africa's Atlantic Coast to China. This development may bolster earnings on the C17 route and strengthen positive market sentiment in the Pacific.

SECTION 1/ FREIGHT - Freight Rates ($/t) Mixed
'The Big Picture' - Capesize and Panamax Bulkers and Smaller Ship Sizes

Remark: Freight market price trends depicted are based on Signal Ocean Assessments. For real-time updates and historical comparisons, access our Freight Market Analytics dashboard here: Signal Ocean Freight Market Analytics.

According to real-time assessments by Signal Ocean, Capesize freight rates on the Brazil-North China route continue to closely track the Baltic C3 benchmark, showing a similarly firm trend as highlighted earlier in the report.

Capesize vessel freight rates increased by 12% week-on-week, reaching approximately $22 per tonne. This upward trend is likely to continue due to a gradual reduction in the number of ballasters in the South Atlantic.

Panamax vessel freight rates from the Continent stood around $31 per tonne; whereas, before the end of the week, the Baltic Panamax Index seems to be gaining ground from the performance of the P2A_82 route (Skaw-Gibraltar trip to Taiwan-Japan) and P1A_82 route (Skaw-Gibraltar transatlantic round voyage).

Supramax freight rates from Indonesia to the East Coast have remained below $9 per tonne since mid-May, with the vessel count of Supramax arrivals to Indonesia for the next ten days rising to more than the levels of the Panamax size.

In the Handysize segment, freight rates for the NOPAC-Far East round voyage have remained under $30 per tonne since mid-April, reflecting an 18% year-on-year decrease.

Estimated vessel arrivals to the Far East for both Handysize and Supramax segments also point to an upward trend in the coming 10 days.
Source: By Maria Bertzeletou, Signal Group
